---
title: "Research"
permalink: /research/
author_profile: true
---

Research Products: Our platform, called TRANSAX, enables participants to trade in an energy futures market, which improves efficiency by finding feasible matches for energy trades, enabling DSOs to plan their energy needs better. TRANSAX provides privacy to participants by anonymizing their trading activity using a distributed mixing service, while also enforcing constraints that limit trading activity based on safety requirements, such as keeping planned energy flow below line capacity. We show that TRANSAX can satisfy the seemingly conflicting requirements of efficiency, safety, and privacy. We also provide an analysis of how much trading efficiency is lost. Trading efficiency is improved through the problem formulation which accounts for temporal flexibility, and system efficiency is improved using a hybrid-solver architecture. We also describe a testbed to run experiments and demonstrate its performance using simulation results. To demonstrate the feasibility of our platform, we perform experiments with dozens of embedded devices and energy production and consumption profiles from a real dataset.

In the context of TES we developed SolidWorx, a platform for enabling participants to trade in futures market. To improve efficiency we reduce the amount of computation that is performed using the smart contract by implementing a hybrid-solver pattern which relies on off-chain solvers to match the offers posted to the system. We only use the smart contract to verify that the solutions are valid.

To enable trusted computations between mistrusting parties in the edge-cloud environment while minimizing the additional computation overhead, we have developed a platform for outsourcing computations4. The existing efforts to construct such a platform, particularly those using blockchain, focus on ensuring global consensus on the results of the computation, but there are many cases where this is not required. Our platform, called MODiCuM, does not execute any of the outsourced computation as part of the smart contract, but instead uses the contract to hold the participants accountable. This effectively replaces the trusted third party required for general trusted two-party computation with the distributed ledger and smart contract.
