README.md, before:

# Statistical Incident Response Management Pipelines

Emergency response management (ERM) is a critical problem faced by communities across the globe. First-responders are constrained by limited resources, and must attend to different types of incidents like traffic accidents, fires, crime, and distress calls. Incident response is further complicated by the constraint that quick and timely service is essential. As a consequence, statistical and algorithmic approaches to emergency response have received significant attention in the last few decades. Governments in urban areas are increasingly adopting methods that enable Smart Statistical Emergency Response, which are a combination of forecasting models and visualization tools to understand where and when incidents occur, and optimization approaches to allocate and dispatch responders. This is the basis of this project.

 The key components of an ERM pipeline are: (1) *Incident forecasting* -- understanding where and when incidents occur , (2) *Long-term
 resource allocation* -- strategic decisions on long-term resource
 place- ment, such as how many stations and vehicles to acquire and
 where to build said stations , (3) *Dynamic resource allocation* --
 short term operational decisions such as rebalancing vehicle
 allocations based on current demands , and (4) *Dispatching* -- policy
 for deploying responders when an incident is reported.
 
 With our collaborators at Tennessee Department of Transportation (focusing on incident response on state highways) and Nashville fire department (focusing on incident response in urban communities) this project is developing an online incident forecasting and algorithmic approaches to  decentralized multi-agent response that focuses on resource allocation and dispatching policies.
 
To understand our methodology please refer to the following [overview paper](overview.pdf). Technical details of individual components of the pipeline can be obtained from the following technical papers.

## Incident Prediction Models.
 - *Batch Prediction Models* : A. Mukhopadhyay, Y. Vorobeychik, A. Dubey, and G. Biswas, [Prioritized Allocation of Emergency Responders based on a Continuous-Time Incident Prediction Model](https://scope-lab.org/files/Mukhopadhyay2017.pdf), in Proceedings of the 16th Conference on Autonomous Agents and MultiAgent Systems, AAMAS 2017, São Paulo, Brazil, May 8-12, 2017, 2017, pp. 168–177.
 - *Updating the forecasting Models Online*: A. Mukhopadhyay, G. Pettet, C. Samal, A. Dubey, and Y. Vorobeychik, [An online decision-theoretic pipeline for responder dispatch](https://scope-lab.org/files/Mukhopadhyay2019.pdf), in Proceedings of the 10th ACM/IEEE International Conference on Cyber-Physical Systems, ICCPS 2019, Montreal, QC, Canada, 2019, pp. 185–196.
 - Bayesian and Clustering Based Methods: G. Pettet, S. Nannapaneni, B. Stadnick, A. Dubey, and G. Biswas, [Incident analysis and prediction using clustering and Bayesian network](https://scope-lab.org/files/Pettet2017.pdf), in 2017 IEEE SmartWorld, 2017, pp. 1–8.
 
## Dispatch Response Methods
- *Theoretical Formulation*: Ayan Mukhopadhyay, Zilin Wang, and Yevgeniy Vorobeychik. 2018. [A Decision Theoretic Framework for Emergency Responder Dispatch](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.5555/3237383.3237471). In Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on Autonomous Agents and MultiAgent Systems (AAMAS ’18). International Foundation for Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems, Richland, SC, 588–596.
- *Heuristic Based Online Decision Making*: A. Mukhopadhyay, G. Pettet, C. Samal, A. Dubey, and Y. Vorobeychik, [An online decision-theoretic pipeline for responder dispatch](https://scope-lab.org/files/Mukhopadhyay2019.pdf), in Proceedings of the 10th ACM/IEEE International Conference on Cyber-Physical Systems, ICCPS 2019, Montreal, QC, Canada, 2019, pp. 185–196.

## Stationing and Rebalaning Methods
- *Online Stationing and Rebalancing Using Decentralized Methods*: G. Pettet, A. Mukhopadhyay, M. Kochenderfer, Y. Vorobeychik, and A. Dubey, [On Algorithmic Decision Procedures in Emergency Response Systems in Smart and Connected Communities](https://scope-lab.org/files/Pettet2020.pdf), in Proceedings of the 19th Conference on Autonomous Agents and MultiAgent Systems, AAMAS 2020, Auckland, New Zealand, 2020.

Commit message:

updated readme about the tool
I changed the tool to reflect the components that have been built/or are likely to be built in the near future. Let us keep adding as we add features to the tool.

README.md, after:

# Statistical Methods to Incident Response

Emergency response management (ERM) is a critical problem faced by communities across the globe. First-responders are constrained by limited resources, and must attend to different types of incidents like traffic accidents, fires, crime, and distress calls. Incident response is further complicated by the constraint that quick and timely service is essential. As a consequence, statistical and algorithmic approaches to emergency response have received significant attention in the last few decades. Governments in urban areas are increasingly adopting methods that enable Smart Statistical Emergency Response, which are a combination of forecasting models and visualization tools to understand where and when incidents occur, and optimization approaches to allocate and dispatch responders. This is the basis of this project.

The most crucial component of an ERM pipeline is to understand where, when and how incidents occur. This tool is a collection of forecasting, clustering and visualization methods accompanied by a set of statistical tools to help first-responders understand the dynamics of incident occurrence. We have worked on emergency response for the last six years and analyzed problems and algorithmic bottlenecks that affect this field. This tool incorporates our work, as well as that of several other researchers who have worked on these problems for decades. To understand the broader methodology behind our tool, please refer to the following [overview paper](overview.pdf). The github repository includes a folder named documentation that consists the mathematical details behind the methods. 

We also include a case study with this tool, courtesy of our collaborators at the Tennessee Department of Transportation (TDOT) and the Nashville Fire Department (NFD).
